
	Meatier meals and more playtime might reduce cats’ toll on wildlife
Simple steps to keep felines happy can also keep more wild birds and mammals alive
Surprisingly simple measures might keep domestic cats from killing a lot of wildlife.

Estimates vary, but it’s likely that billions of birds and mammals succumb each year to our outdoor-ranging feline friends (SN: 1/29/13). Calls to keep cats indoors are often contentious among cat owners, and cats can sometimes reject colorful collars or loud bells designed to make them more noticeable.

But a meat-rich diet or a few minutes of hunting-like play each day can significantly reduce the amount of wildlife they bring home, researchers report February 11 in Current Biology. 

Interventions that reduce cat predation and have buy-in from cat owners “are so important because we’re just decimating bird populations,” says Susan Willson, an ecologist at St. Lawrence University in Canton, N.Y., who wasn’t involved in the study. While preliminary, she says this study shows that “simply feeding your cat a high-meat diet might actually work.”


read more https://www.sciencenews.org/article/cat-meat-meals-diet-playtime-wildlife-birds


	For the first time, an exoplanet family around a sunlike star has had its portrait taken. Astronomers used the Very Large Telescope in Chile to snap a photo of two giant planets orbiting a young star with about the same mass as the sun, researchers report July 22 in The Astrophysical Journal Letters.

The star, called TYC 8998-760-1, is about 300 light-years away in the constellation Musca. At just 17 million years old, the planetary family is a youngster compared with the 4-billion-year-old solar system.

Although astronomers have found thousands of exoplanets, most aren’t observed directly. Instead they are spotted as shadows crossing in front of their stars, or inferred as unseen forces tugging at their stars.

read more https://www.sciencenews.org/article/first-picture-sun-like-star-multiple-exoplanets-astronomy-planets

Tiny, sunlight-powered aircraft could soar beyond airplanes’ reach
Light is all that’s needed to levitate these microfliers
Flight isn’t easy at the edge of space. But tiny “microfliers” could soar high in Earth’s atmosphere fueled only by sunlight, experiments suggest.

At heights between about 50 and 80 kilometers above Earth’s surface, in what’s known as the mesosphere, the atmosphere is so thin that airplanes and balloons can’t stay aloft. But mechanical engineer Mohsen Azadi and colleagues at the University of Pennsylvania saw promise in a technique that uses light to levitate objects. The researchers cut disks of transparent Mylar 6 millimeters in diameter and coated the bottom sides with carbon nanotubes. When heated by light, the tiny aircraft floated inside a vacuum chamber with a pressure that mimicked the mesosphere, the researchers report February 12 in Science Advances.
read more
https://www.sciencenews.org/article/tiny-sunlight-powered-aircraft-could-soar-beyond-airplanes-reach



Fin whale songs can reveal hidden features of the ocean floor
Fin whale calls can penetrate into Earth’s crust, offering scientists a new way to study the properties of the ocean floor.

By Carolyn GramlingFebruary 11, 2021
The fin whale’s call is among the loudest in the ocean: It can even penetrate into Earth’s crust, a new study finds. Echoes in whale songs recorded by seismic instruments on the ocean floor reveal that the sound waves pass through layers of sediment and underlying rock. These songs can help probe the structure of the crust when more conventional survey methods are not available, researchers report in the Feb. 12 Science.

Six songs, all from a single whale that sang as it swam, were analyzed by seismologists Václav Kuna of the Czech Academy of Sciences in Prague and John Nábělek of Oregon State University in Corvallis. They recorded the songs, lasting from 2.5 to 4.9 hours, in 2012 and 2013 with a network of 54 ocean-bottom seismometers in the northeast Pacific Ocean.

read more https://www.sciencenews.org/article/fin-whale-songs-seismic-wave-hidden-features-ocean-floor
